.ds q \N'34'
.TH TBOX 1 29/05/25 TBOX_ALPHA General Commands
.SH "NAME"
.B tbox - Tangerine Box
\"
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fBtbox -R\fR [[\fIexec options\fR] <\fIcommands\fR> ...]
\fBtbox -E\fR [\fIedit options\fR] [\fIeditor_flags\fR] <\fIfile\fR> ...
\fBtbox -Q\fR [\fIquery options\fR]

\"Tangerine Flags
\"-R -r|--record -extern --exit -o -E --env -Q --list -f --format_output
.fi
\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The tbox command is the pratical way of execute and debug any command in
Tangerine Box project and manage it. For the user usage, can be usefull use
the tbox for a fast query and access of a singular or many command once.
Now, if we are talk about the develop, can be usefull use the tbox command for
rapailly find and edit the source/manual command.

Overall, the Tangerine box is a diverse library, a true box of, not only,
tangerine, small insects, cell, molecule, atoms, quarks ... Well, many
useless things for someones and some usefull thing for others, depend of
situation!

.SH "OVERVIEW"
.PP
No much for say here..

.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "General options"
\"
.PP
\fB\-R\fR
.RS 4
The flag '\-R' say for tbox, "hey man, I wanna execute some commands!".
For each command, the tbox engine seaches in the directory "commands" for the
command name.
If tbox find the command, he uses the value of flag \-\-extern,
by default is bash, for execute the command whether it's not compiled.
Else, the tbox just displays a message error and continue with perform.
.RE
\"
.PP
\fB\-E\fR
.RS 4
For developers of project(just me so now..),
the \-E option is loveliness when we talk about develop the Tangerine Box.
Well, I don't a senior nor full-stack developer, so it's "ok" some erros here
and there, consequently we need a fast and effective way of open,
close and modify files,
don't matter the situation and environment.

The \-E flag do the tbox command undestand that all head of \-E is for the
develop usage, thus tbox enable the develop options,
which can change the default editor text, vim, and
can pass the editor opions using the flag \-\-editor-flags.
.RE
\"
.PP
\fB-Q\fR
.RS 4
For both, user and developer, the query operation, shown by option \-Q,
is effective way for search and agrouping commands by your class, informations,
names and locale, beyond of regex.
Every option after the \-Q flag must are listed in subsection of this manu, called
"Query options".
.RE
.SS "Exec options"
\"
.PP
\fB\-\-extern=\fR\fIinterpret\fR
.RS 4
Define a new interpret for execute the commands doesn't compiled forward.
Put this if the the command source isn't a executable file and
doesn't wirte in shellscript language.
Ensure that, if file is executable, is authorized for run.

By default, the option value is bash.
.RE
\"
.PP
\fB\-\-exit\fR
.RS 4
Display the exit of each command in numerical format.
Each exit is repective of compile and interpret used for execute the file.
.RE
\"
.PP
\fB\-o, \-\-output\fR
.RS 4
Display the raw output of each command.
.RE
\"
.PP
\fB\-d,\-\-debug=\fIfile\fB\fR
.RS 4
By default, all errors ignored.
Enable the debug, each erros it's displayed in terminal.
If debug get any value, using the \-\-debug=\fIfile\fR,
this value is used for naming a record file of erros.
By default, the value is log_erros_<\fIcommand_name\fR>.txt
.RE
.SS "Edit options"
\"
.PP
\fB\-\-editor=\fIeditor_name\fI
.RS 4

